Were you successful?
Let's do it together.
And for this, let's maybe start in the App component
and render the Auth component,
if we're not authenticated
and render UserProfile if we are authenticated.
So for this, I'll also import UserProfile
from ./components/UserProfile.
And then here,
we need to tap into our
store
and read a value from there.
And we do that with useSelector.
So I'll import useSelector
from React-Redux
and in the App component function
we therefore call useSelector, pass a function to it
a function which will always receive state as a argument
that's passed in by Redux or by React Redux to be precise.
And then here, I wanna return state.auth
.auth because I picked auth as an identifier here.
And then in my authSlice,
I have this isAuthenticated property.
So it's, state.auth.isAuthenticated.
And that gives me the isAuth value.
Of course, this constant can be named however you want.
And we can use this to check if we're not
hence the exclamation mark.
If we're not authenticated
then I wanna show the Auth component.
Else,
if isAuth is truthy
I wanna render UserProfile.
And if everything works, if we save
we should still see that Auth form.
Now we also got some conditional content to render here
in the header and therefore
we can go into the Header JS file
and do the same thing here.
We import useSelector
from React-Redux
and then here
we create our isAuth property
or constant I mean,
call useSelector and use the same selector logic
or diving into state.auth.isAuthenticated.
And now we can use isAuth to conditionally render
or not render those list items.
And since in this case
actually the entire navigation is only relevant.
If we are authenticated, we can also just
render the entire nav item conditionally.
If isAuth is truthy
then
I want to
render
this nav
like this.
If we now save that and reload,
we don't see anything here
because initially we are not authenticated.
Now I wanna the Login action
if the Login button is clicked
I actually won't even bother to read the user input.
I will not validate it.
You can do all of that, but that's not related to Redux.
So I will just care about the form submission
with the Login button,
hence here at the Auth component
we wanna add onSubmit listener on the form here
and then add a new function in the Auth component,
the submit,
or the loginHandler
where we get to the default event
which we still should use to prevent the default
to make sure React doesn't send a HTTP request
or the browser sends a HTTP request to be precise.
You'll learn about that in the forms section.
And then with that wired up
in that loginHandler, after preventing the default
I wanna dispatch
that Login action.
Now for this we wanna use the auth actions
which were exporting
and use this patch.
So in the Auth JS file
we import
useDispatch,
from React-Redux.
And in addition, I also wanna import
from going up one level,
store index.
And from there, I wanna import the auth actions.
And then here in the auth component, we execute
useDispatch to get access to that dispatch function.
And in the loginHandler
we then use the Dispatch function to dispatch
authActions.login
we execute login because you learned that this is a
action creator returning the actual action object
which should be dispatched.
If we do that and save everything.
If we reload and click on Login
we switched to the login state
as we can tell by the changes on the UI,
so that works.
Last but not least,
let's wire up the Logout button here,
and a for this in the header where we got the logout button
I'll add onClick listener on that button
and then add a function here to the Header component
the logoutHandler, where I wanna dispatch my action.
So again, just as before
for this import useDispatch and we import our
authActions from
store index,
we then call
useDispatch in the component function to get access
to that dispatch function.
And then the loginHandler, we then dispatch
we call dispatch
and
to it,
we pass authActions.logout
execute it as a method again
because that then creates that logout action object.
Now we need to wire up the logoutHandler
to onClick
and we should be good to go.
If I now click on Logout, I'm locked out.
If I click on Login, I'm logged back in.
So that is working and that is how we can work
with multiple, totally different pieces
of data in one and the same application.
And that is something you will need
in almost any React application you're going to build.
You will always just have one Redux store
but then typically multiple different state slices
which manage totally different data.
And as you see it, it's super easy to create
and manage multiple slices when using Redux toolkit.